README.md, before:

# E-Commerce-Store-Analysis
This repository contains a Power Bi dashboard of an E-commerce store to answer questions about the data. The insights of the dashboard can be found in the results.txt file. This repository can be used as a starting point for anyone who wants to learn how to use Power Bi to analyze data.

<img width="1166" height="647" alt="Screenshot 2025-11-27 172036" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4045ce08-dcf8-4578-a527-47e12f514803" />



# Project Learnings

*Developed an interactive and insightful dashboard to track, analyze, and visualize online sales performance.

*Utilized advanced parameters for dynamic drill-down analysis and implemented customized filters and slicers to enhance user interactivity.

*Created data connections, performed table joins, and applied complex calculations to transform and manipulate raw data into meaningful insights.

*Enabled user-driven parameters and actions to provide flexible, self-service analytics for end-users.

*Designed and implemented multiple customized visualizations including bar charts, pie charts, donut charts, clustered bar charts, scatter plots, line and area charts, geographical maps, and interactive slicers.

*Improved data storytelling by organizing insights into intuitive layouts and adding KPI indicators for quick decision-making.

*Optimized dashboard performance by reducing data load, using calculated fields efficiently, and applying proper data modeling techniques.

*Ensured clean data representation by applying formatting standards, color-coding, and using tooltip enhancements for better clarity.
# Conclusion
The project was successful in answering the set of questions about an E-commerce Store's performance.

Commit message:

Enhance README with project features and details
Expanded the README to detail project features and functionalities.

README.md, after:

# E-Commerce-Store-Analysis
This project showcases an interactive and fully customizable dashboard built to analyze online sales performance across multiple metrics and dimensions.

# Key Features

1.Interactive Dashboard: Designed an intuitive dashboard to visualize sales trends, product performance, customer insights, and geographic distribution. 

2.Advanced Drill-Down: Implemented complex parameters to enable multi-level drill-down within worksheets for deeper analytics.

3.Dynamic Filters & Slicers: Used custom filters, slicers, and user-driven parameters to provide flexible, self-service exploration of data.

4.Data Modeling & Transformation:

-Created data connections and joined multiple tables.

-Performed calculations and data manipulation to derive meaningful insights from raw data.

-Built calculated fields and measures to support advanced visual analysis.

5.Rich Visualizations: Included various chart types such as bar, donut, stacked bar chart, slicer, card, scatter, line, area, and column chart.

6.Enhanced Data Storytelling: Organized the dashboard with KPIs, tooltips, labels, and consistent formatting for clarity and better user experience.

7.Performance Optimization: Improved loading speed and responsiveness by applying efficient data modeling techniques.

<img width="1166" height="647" alt="Screenshot 2025-11-27 172036" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4045ce08-dcf8-4578-a527-47e12f514803" />



# Project Learnings

*Developed an interactive and insightful dashboard to track, analyze, and visualize online sales performance.

*Utilized advanced parameters for dynamic drill-down analysis and implemented customized filters and slicers to enhance user interactivity.

*Created data connections, performed table joins, and applied complex calculations to transform and manipulate raw data into meaningful insights.

*Enabled user-driven parameters and actions to provide flexible, self-service analytics for end-users.

*Designed and implemented multiple customized visualizations including bar charts, pie charts, donut charts, clustered bar charts, scatter plots, line and area charts, geographical maps, and interactive slicers.

*Improved data storytelling by organizing insights into intuitive layouts and adding KPI indicators for quick decision-making.

*Optimized dashboard performance by reducing data load, using calculated fields efficiently, and applying proper data modeling techniques.

*Ensured clean data representation by applying formatting standards, color-coding, and using tooltip enhancements for better clarity.
# Conclusion
The project was successful in answering the set of questions about an E-commerce Store's performance.
